In this lecture, you'll learn about triple A. authentication authorization and accounting to earlier
in this section, you saw how to configure local security and configuring line level secure to a or
local user names on each individual.
Diverter switch has a serious scalability limitation.
That is, that if a password has to be added, changed or removed, it needs to be done on all devices.
And this is wherever you're using line level or usernames for the security.
So if a new administrator joins the company and won't see you've got a hundred drivers and switches,
you're going to have to add username on all of the different routers on switches.
If an administrator leaves, you're going to need to remove the username on all of the different switches.
And if you're using a line level password instead, again, if an administrator leaves, then you're
going to need to change your password on all of the different devices.
It would be a security issue to have the same password on there when an administrator knows it and they've
left the company.
So rather than having to configure all of our different devices with our security details, what is
a better idea is to use an external triple A server instead.
And then why was this to centralize the security?
So all of a security configuration, all the usernames and passwords and the authorization details are
configured on the triple A server and all of your adapters and switches pointed out server.
So whenever anybody wants to log in to or switch, it checks with a server if they are authenticated
and authorized or not.
And typically real world, we're not going to just have one triple A server.
We're going to put in at least two for redundancy in case one of them goes down.
To Tripoli, it stands for authentication, authorization and accounting authentication verifies that
somebody is really who they say they are, that's most commonly achieved with a username and password.
The person has to be an actual person to know the password.
So that's how we verify it is them authorization specifies what a particular user is allowed to do,
such as whether they are allowed to run a particular command or not.
And accounting keeps track of the options that a user has carted out.
So we can use this as an audit trail to check what commands and an administrator entered.
And this is not just for pointing the finger at somebody.
If something goes wrong, if something was working before I know it stopped working, then probably
it's because a command was and are having an audit trail.
What you quickly find out what happened just before it stopped working.
So as useful for troubleshooting, authorization and accounting are optional when you're using triple
M, authentication is mandatory if authorization and or accounting are used.
So authorization is seeing what somebody is allowed to do or not.
Well, you want to make sure it really is then before you authorize them to do anything.
The same with accounting.
If you're keeping track of what somebody is doing, you want to make sure it really is them before you
actually keep track of that.
The protocols that are used for triple A are radius and aftershocks, plus both of them are open standards,
although vendors may advocate the extensions.
I'll talk a bit more about that in a minute.
And many vendors triple a server support booth to eclipse vocal support booth radius on tax plus as
well.
Radius is commonly used for and use our Web services such as VPN access.
If you use those out on the road and they're going to VPN in to get access to the corporate network,
then radius would be a better match for that tax.
Plus is commonly used for administrator access or in Cisco devices because it's got more granular authorization
capabilities.
It's better for controlling what commands a particular administrator is or is not allowed to run.
So school, as well as many of our vendors have got the triple A server, Cisco's triple A server is
the ICE, the identity services engine.
They also used to have the ACARS, which is the access control server, and it was available for years
and years.
But it's going end of sealed now.
So the current triple A server from Cisco is the ice.
OK, let's have a look at how triple works.
So here we've got an administrator on the left and she's going to log in to the router in the middle.
And we've also got a triple A server as well.
And all of the traffic is going to be going over IP.
So the administrator connects to the Cisco Earth to manage it, using either telnet or associates,
preferably assess it because it's encrypted.
The router within not telnet RSS.
Each session will challenge the user, ask the user to enter a username and password.
Still, within that Telnet RACC session, the administrator enters their username and password.
Now, if we were using local authentication, we would have username configured on the router itself.
But when we use triple A, the username and password is stored externally on our triple A server.
So the router passes the credentials, the username and password over to the triple E server and not
in either a radius or a tax plus section.
The server will look to see if the username and password are valid and it will reply back to the driver
to see whether the user is authenticated or not.
Optionally, it can also give the regular authorization information as well.
So based on the username and password, what commands that user is allowed to run on the router, then
the administrator is going to be able to work within Matalan RSS each session.
OK, so that was just having the user and directly authenticated with a triple E server.
But in real world networks, most user databases are the most common.
User database is active directory from Microsoft.
Almost for sure.
The company you're working for, they're using active directory.
So you come in in the morning and you log in with your Windows username and password.
Now, it is possible if we go back to our previous example, that, yes, you could use Octave directly
and your triple A server separately.
So when you come in in the morning, you log in to windows and you're using your active director username
and password.
And then when you go to log in to the router to do your Cisco administration, you use a different username
and password that is on the triple A server.
But the problem is that users, if they have to remember lots of different usernames and passwords,
what they do is they write it on a Post-it note and stick it on their monitor.
And then there's not much point in having usernames and passwords.
So it's better if you can have just one username and password per user.
That way it's easier for them to remember it.
The it's always going to be in sync.
Another thing you'll sometimes she is if you do have different databases, users try to have the same
username and password and all of them.
But they have to change your password once in a while and it's going to get out of sync.
So it's not really possible to manage at its best if you've just got one database, one username, one
password per user.
So far that what you'll often see again in Buro deployments is an active directory integration.
Now, it is possible that the router can send the username and password directly to the octave directly
the main controller, because the active directly domain controller, it supports radius as well.
But the problem with this is the Active Directory is a Microsoft product, so it doesn't support the
level of granularity, the control of authorization.
The Cisco triple E server does a Cisco triple A server that it can control the individual Cisco commands.
The user is allowed to run on a router or switch the octave directly.
It's from Microsoft.
It's not aware of Cisco level commands.
So this comes down to the vendor.
Proprietary Extension's a Cisco Tripoli server is great for controlling Cisco routers and switches,
but we don't want to have a separate user database on Mr. School Chappellet server and an active directory.
So what we'll do is we'll integrate the A server with active directory that we will get the best of
both worlds.
We get the really granular control of our authorization from Cisco Triple E server and it still allows
us to use that one username and password and active directory.
So how it's going to work if we've got an active directly integration, the administrator goes to log
in to the router using Telnet or S.H., the router blocks and a challenge back to the user inside telnet.
Our associates asking them for the.
Username and password, the administrator answers for username and password that gets sent to the our
orbit switch, the router is integrated with the Cisco Triple E server, which will be the ice and using
radius aftershocks.
So it sends the username and password to the server when the router sends a username and password to
the server and reduce of it's encrypted.
So if anybody sniffing the topic over the wire, they can't see that username and password.
The Tripoli server does not have the local user database.
Now it's on the active director domain controller.
So the server sends the username and password to the active direct through the main controller.
That will normally be using Elgort, which is white directly access protocol as the protocol.
The domain controller will then tell the Tripoli server whether that is a valid username and password,
and it can also give group information back to the Tripoli server as well.
So what this allows you to do is maybe you've got a group, an active directory called Sasko Administrators
and they get full control on the right words.
They can run all commands.
Maybe you've got another group in Active Direct they called Cisco Helpdesk, and they can do read-only
type commands, but we can't change any of the configuration so the server can pull the information
from active directory.
Then on your server, you can configure what particular groups and active directly I don't like to do
on your right hand switches what commands.
But I like to run the Triple A server and send information back in the radius or take accession to the
router, seeing whether that was a valid username or password or not, and also optional authorization
information, which will be based on the group.
Like I just explained, the writable van, complete the Telnet RSA session with the user and they will
be able to run the commands they are authorized to run.
OK, so that is the city of Tripoli.
In the next lecture, I'll show you how to configure it.